+++
title = 'Advancement Requirements, Policies and Procedures'
+++

<p>This material has been prepared in an effort to foster and encourage the advancement of all scouts. While it is the ultimate responsibility of each scout to pursue his own advancement, the troop leadership is desirous of establishing an environment in which scouts have the support and encouragement necessary to succeed.</p>
<p><strong>I. REQUIREMENTS:</strong> There are three stages in the advancement process.</p>
<p><span style="text-decoration: underline;">New Scout</span>: You must demonstrate your understanding of the scouting program by knowing the scout oath, law, motto and slogan and agreeing to live by them.</p>
<p><span style="text-decoration: underline;">Tenderfoot, Second Class, and First Class:</span> During this stage you will become a well-rounded scout to prepare yourself for the adventure of Scouting. You will be required to (1) learn and demonstrate basic scouting skills such as camping, orienteering, hiking, first aid, swimming, cooking, and physical fitness, (2) participate in a specified number of activities, (3) demonstrate Scout Spirit by living the scout oath and law, and (4) successfully complete a Scoutmaster&#8217;s Conference and a Board of Review for each rank.</p>
<p><span style="text-decoration: underline;">Star, Life and Eagle:</span> Service to your troop and community, as well as personal enrichment through the merit badge program, is the emphasis of this stage. For each rank, you must (1) be active in the troop for a specified period of time, (2) demonstrate Scout Spirit by living the scout oath and law, (3) earn a specified number of merit badges including a specified number of Eagle required merit badges, (4) actively serve in a position of responsibility in the troop, (5) complete a specified number of hours of community service (or an Eagle Project), and (6) successfully complete a Scoutmaster Conference and Board of Review.</p>
<p><strong>II. PROCEDURES AND POLICIES</strong><br />
<span style="text-decoration: underline;">New Scouts &#8211;</span> After submitting an application to become a Boy Scout, the Scoutmaster will assign<br />
you to a patrol. The Scoutmaster will work with each new Scout to complete the requirements for the<br />
rank of Scout.</p>
<p><span style="text-decoration: underline;">Tenderfoot, Second Class and First Class </span>&#8211; Each scout should have a Boy Scout Handbook and should review the requirements of each rank. Only scouts who have completed the Troop Certification Program can verify the completion of a requirement and sign the scout&#8217;s handbook when he successfully completes a requirement. A list of currently certified scouts is posted on the troop bulletin board. If scouts have questions concerning advancement, they should ask their Patrol Leader, an Instructor, the Senior Patrol Leader or their Patrol Advisor (see your printed troop roster).</p>
<p>Generally, most requirements can be divided into the following four categories:</p>
<ul>
<li>Knowledge about a subject &#8211; You should study the material in the handbook sufficiently to satisfy the requirement and then talk to a certified scout to review the material with you.</li>
<li>Demonstrate a skill &#8211; You should study the material in the handbook and then talk to your patrol leader to plan the opportunity to complete the requirement. Because some of these requirements cannot be entirely learned just reading the manual, the patrol leader should arrange a time to teach the scout this skill. The patrol leader may ask one of the Instructors, or the Troop Guide, to help him with this task.</li>
<li>Knowledge about a subject and demonstrate a skill &#8211; Same as &#8220;Demonstrate a skill&#8221; above.</li>
<li>Participation in a specified number of activities and demonstrating Scout Spirit &#8211; During your Scoutmaster Conference, the Scoutmaster will review with you a copy of your Individual Activity Participation Record to verify your participation in the required number of activities and discuss with you your Scout Spirit.</li>
</ul>
<p><span style="text-decoration: underline;">Star, Life and Eagle</span> -It is the responsibility of each scout First Class and above to pursue his own advancement. At any time, you may discuss with the Scoutmaster your progress and the extent of the remaining requirements for completion of the next rank. Upon completion of the rank of Life, each Scout must contact our Eagle Advisor (see roster).</p>
<p><span style="text-decoration: underline;">Merit Badge Completion</span> -After deciding on a particular merit badge, you should get the book from the troop library (or the Scout Store if the library doesn&#8217;t have a copy) and then select a counselor from the Powhatan District Merit Badge Counselor List, also in the troop library. Then ask the Scoutmaster for a blue card, fill in the general information of the blue card, including the name of the merit badge, and ask the Scoutmaster to sign it. After studying the requirements, you should contact the counselor. The counselor will discuss with you his or her process for completing the requirements. Take your blue card with you when you meet with the counselor. After the counselor signs the blue card, return the signed blue card to the Scoutmaster. The Scoutmaster’s signature is required to complete the merit badge.<br />
<strong>Note:</strong> With a few exceptions (e.g. Camping MB 20 nights of camping), any activity completed prior to the<br />
issuance of a blue card may not be used for fulfillment of a merit badge requirement.</p>
<p><span style="text-decoration: underline;">Community Service </span>-You must have the community service approved by the Scoutmaster before you complete work toward this requirement. The service work cannot be for the benefit of the troop or Boy Scouts of America, nor can it be for a commercial establishment or purpose. Try to stay with projects for a church, a non-profit organization or the community. Hours for Adopt-a-Highway program count toward this requirement and do not require prior approval.</p>
<p><span style="text-decoration: underline;">Position of Responsibility </span>-You must serve in a position of responsibility for a specified period of time and it is within the discretion of the Scoutmaster to decide if you have satisfactorily completed the requirements of the position. After your election or appointment, you will receive a copy of your position description and you will be asked to set goals for completion during your term. Achieving the goals you established will assist in satisfying the position of responsibility requirement.</p>
<p><strong>All Ranks</strong><br />
<span style="text-decoration: underline;">Scoutmaster Conference</span> -After completing all the requirements, you should contact the Scoutmaster to schedule a Scoutmaster Conference. Although there are multiple purposes of the conference, the Scoutmaster may use this opportunity to verify that you have successfully completed specific requirements. You should come to the conference prepared to state or demonstrate any of the requirements. In addition, you will be asked to explain why you feel you have demonstrated Scout Spirit (at scout meetings and functions, at home, at school and proudly wearing the full scout uniform at scout functions) and what you have done to successfully fulfill your Position of Responsibility. Upon<br />
successful completion of a Scoutmaster Conference, the Scoutmaster will advise the Chairperson of the Advancement Committee.</p>
<p>The Scoutmaster, or designated Assistant Scoutmaster, retains the discretion to consider many factors to determine if a scout has successfully completed a particular requirement for all ranks. For the rank of Eagle, in the event the Scoutmaster declines to approve a scout, the scout may appeal the decision to the Troop Committee and a declination by the Troop Committee may be appealed to the Powhatan District.</p>
<p><span style="text-decoration: underline;">Board of Review</span> – After successfully completing a Scoutmaster Conference, each scout should contact the Chairperson of the Advancement Committee and request a Board of Review. You must bring your handbook to the Board of Review with all required signatures. The Board of Review is an opportunity for you to meet with adults, other than the Scoutmaster and Assistant Scoutmasters, to discuss your Scouting experience.</p>
<p><a title="Scout Rank Requirements" href="http://www.scouting.org/scoutsource/BoyScouts/AdvancementandAwards/joining.aspx">Requirement to Achieve the Rank of Scout</a><br />
<a title="Tenderfoot Requirements" href="http://www.scouting.org/scoutsource/BoyScouts/AdvancementandAwards/tenderfoot.aspx">Requirement to Achieve the Rank of Tenderfoot</a><br />
<a title="Second Class Requirements" href="http://www.scouting.org/scoutsource/BoyScouts/AdvancementandAwards/secondclass.aspx">Requirement to Achieve the Rank of Second Class</a><br />
<a title="First Class Requirements" href="http://www.scouting.org/scoutsource/BoyScouts/AdvancementandAwards/firstclass.aspx">Requirement to Achieve the Rank of First Class</a><br />
<a title="Star Rank Requirements" href="http://www.scouting.org/scoutsource/BoyScouts/AdvancementandAwards/star.aspx">Requirement to Achieve the Rank of Star</a><br />
<a title="Life Rank Requirements" href="http://www.scouting.org/scoutsource/BoyScouts/AdvancementandAwards/life.aspx">Requirement to Achieve the Rank of Life</a><br />
<a title="Eagle Rank Requirements" href="http://www.scouting.org/scoutsource/BoyScouts/AdvancementandAwards/eagle.aspx">Requirement to Achieve the Rank of Eagle</a><br />
<a title="Alternate Eagle Rank Requirements" href="http://www.scouting.org/scoutsource/BoyScouts/AdvancementandAwards/eaglealt.aspx">Requirement to Achieve the Rank of Eagle &#8211; Alternate</a></p>
