+++
title = 'Assistant Scoutmaster Responsibilities'
+++

<p><span style="text-decoration: underline;">Assistant Scoutmaster for Advancement </span>&#8211; This Assistant Scoutmaster, in consultation with the Scoutmaster, is responsible for monitoring, encouraging and fostering the advancement of scouts from the rank of Scout to First Class. He/she will attend all Patrol Leaders Council meetings and the Annual Planning Session to encourage the regular and frequent inclusion of advancement related activities in the outings and meetings of the troop. This Assistant Scoutmaster works with the Assistant Senior Patrol Leader to insure the utilization of all Troop Instructors in the fulfillment of advancement objectives and assists in the provision of instructional programs of the troop.</p>
<p><span style="text-decoration: underline;">Assistant Scoutmaster for Den Chiefs and Scout Recruitment </span>&#8211; This Assistant Scoutmaster is responsible, in consultation with the Scoutmaster and the Subcommittee for Membership and Communications of the Troop Committee, for the recruitment, placement and training of the Den Chiefs of the troop. He/she is responsible for identifying and communicating with the adult leadership of all nearby Cub Scouts packs to identify and satisfy their needs for Den Chiefs. He/she will monitor the activities of the assigned Den Chiefs to insure consistency and quality of service. As an alternative to building the ranks of our troop through Cub Scouts, this Assistant Scoutmaster will oversee the implementation of other recruitment activities (such as open houses) as may be necessary to ensure the<br />
health of the troop.</p>
<p><span style="text-decoration: underline;">Assistant Scoutmaster for Special Events, Equipment and Monthly Venturing Program </span>&#8211; This Assistant Scoutmaster&#8217;s responsibility is multi-faceted to (1) provide non-logistical planning and implementation of the troop’s participation in the District Camporee(s) and Scouting on the Mall (2) foster the inclusion of venturing activities during the monthly activities to encourage greater older scout participation and (3) work with the Assistant Senior Patrol Leader to assist in the oversight of the troop Quartermasters to ensure that the proper troop and patrol equipment is acquired, maintained and properly stored. This Assistant Scoutmaster will attend all Patrol Leaders Council meetings and the Annual Planning Session to provide suggestions, recommendations and ideas for venturing troop activities as a<br />
means of encouraging greater older scout participation.</p>
<p><span style="text-decoration: underline;">Assistant Scoutmaster for Inter-Patrol Competition </span>&#8211; This Assistant Scoutmaster works with the Patrol Leaders Council to develop, establish and maintain a system of inter-patrol competition that will foster reliance on the Patrol Method of Scouting, reward teamwork and participation and develop interpersonal skills and leadership. This Assistant Scoutmaster should attend all Patrol Leader Council meetings to ensure the inclusion of an inter-patrol competition activity in all troop meetings and outings. He/she will monitor and oversee the planning of these activities and attend the troop meetings and outings to ensure the quality implementation of these activities. As deemed appropriate, this ASM will work with the Scoutmaster to provide opportunities for the recognition of patrol achievements.</p>
<p><span style="text-decoration: underline;">Assistant Scoutmaster for Inter-Patrol Competition </span>&#8211; This Assistant Scoutmaster works with the<br />
Patrol Leaders Council to develop, establish and maintain a system of inter-patrol competition that will foster reliance on the Patrol Method of Scouting, reward teamwork and participation and develop interpersonal skills and leadership. This Assistant Scoutmaster should attend all Patrol Leader Council meetings to ensure the inclusion of an inter-patrol competition activity in all troop meetings and outings. He/she will monitor and oversee the planning of these activities and attend the troop meetings and outings to ensure the quality implementation of these activities. As deemed appropriate, this ASM will work with the Scoutmaster to provide opportunities for the recognition of patrol achievements.</p>
<p><span style="text-decoration: underline;">Assistant Scoutmaster for Program &amp; Leadership Development </span>&#8211; This Assistant Scoutmaster is responsible for working with the Patrol Leaders Council to provide assistance with troop and monthly outing planning to foster the provision of a quality program for all scouts of the troop. He/she attends all Patrol Leaders Councils as the council&#8217;s primary advisor in the process of developing plans for the provision of the scout program. As necessary, this Assistant Scoutmaster conducts special sessions with the council to develop leadership and planning skills of the youth leadership of the troop. This ASM is responsible for planning and implementing the twice a year Junior Leaders Training sessions for the youth leadership and monitoring the performance of youth leadership to provide remedial assistance as may be necessary.</p>
<p><span style="text-decoration: underline;">Assistant Scoutmaster – Eagle Advisor </span>&#8211; This ASM, preferably himself an Eagle Scout, is responsible for encouraging and guiding scouts to the ultimate scout achievement of Eagle Scout rank. With information provided by the Scoutmaster, he monitors the advancement progress of scouts and provides to them guidance and assistance in understanding the procedural process for attainment of Eagle Scout. In consultation with the Scoutmaster, he works with scouts to insure that scouts properly plan, implement and complete their Eagle Scout project and advises scouts on the formalities of the Eagle application process. This Assistant Scoutmaster has lead responsibility for Eagle Court of Honors to coordinate, with the assistance of the troop Committee Advancement Chair and the Eagle Scout parents, the completion of a well-planned program.</p>
<p><span style="text-decoration: underline;">Assistant Scoutmaster for Communications </span>&#8211; This Assistant Scoutmaster, in consultation with the Scoutmaster and Membership and Communications Subcommittee of the Troop Committee, works with the Assistant Senior Patrol Leader to oversee the appointed positions of Librarian, Historian(s), Scribe and Webmaster to provide an effective and efficient means of keeping all scouts and parents informed and providing for the retention of historical information and materials. He/she shall be responsible for insuring that the aforementioned youth leaders are active participants in the process of providing information to parents and scouts through the Troop Committee approved procedures for communication and retention of information.</p>
<p><span style="text-decoration: underline;">Assistant Scoutmasters as Patrol Advisors </span>&#8211; An Assistant Scoutmaster assigned to a patrol as its Patrol Advisor is responsible for mentoring, guiding and assisting the Patrol Leader in implementing the boy-led concept of troop operations. Attention should be given to insuring that all activities of the patrol are in accord with the general program policies of the Boy Scouts of America and are consistent with all applicable BSA guidelines for the protection of health and safety. Patrol Advisors should be present for patrol meetings (during the troop meetings and otherwise), monthly outings and other activities to provide, as needed, advice and consultation to the Patrol Leader or members of the patrol. Patrol Advisors should be available to parents to answer any inquiries relating to the activities of the patrol or their son.</p>
