+++
title = 'Frequently Asked Questions and Forms'
+++

<p><strong>Does my son need a uniform?</strong><br />
Troop 55 requires all scouts to own a complete scout uniform consisting of scout shirt with proper insignia, scout pants, scout belt, scouts socks, troop neckerchief with slide and troop hat. See the calendar of yearly events for the uniform required for each meeting or activity. The troop has instituted a uniform sway and during the 03-04 school<br />
year more details will be provided to all members of the troop.</p>
<p><strong>What is a class A+, class A, or class B uniform?</strong><br />
(A+) Full Uniform &amp; Neckerchief<br />
(A) Full Uniform<br />
(B) Troop T-Shirt and scout pants or shorts</p>
<p><strong>When is the Boy Scout Handbook used?</strong><br />
The Boy Scout Handbook contains information pertaining to the basis skills of scouting, advancement and general information about the organization of Boy Scouts. A scout should bring his handbook to meetings when the meeting agenda includes an opportunity to be tested on requirements for Scout, Tenderfoot, Second Class or First Class or outings when similar opportunities exist. His Patrol Leader will sign the book evidencing completion of a requirement. A scout should always bring his Handbook to ScoutmasterConferences and Board of Reviews.</p>
<p><strong>What are the ranks and what do they mean?</strong><br />
A scout is recognized for his achievements by the utilization of rank awards. After becoming a Scout, the next rank is Tenderfoot, followed by Second Class, First Class, Star, Life and Eagle. From the stage of Tenderfoot to First Class scouts learn the basic  skills of first aid, citizenship, camping, cooking, orienteering and other outdoor skills. After completing First Class, a scout then turns his attention to helping others through community service and service to his troop by serving in one of the several positions of responsibility. Also after becoming First Class, a scout must earn a specified number of merit badges to advance to Star, Life and Eagle.</p>
<p><strong>Is there a schedule for rank advancement?</strong><br />
No, a scout can set his own pace for advancement although many scouts complete First Class within a year to a year and a half after becoming a scout. After reaching the rank of First Class, a scout is required to be active in each rank for a specified period of time before he can advance to the next rank (see the Scout Handbook for specific periods of<br />
time).</p>
<p><strong>Who signs off on requirements?</strong><br />
In Troop 55 we allow any scout who is First Class or above (and holds a position of responsibility) to sign scouts off on requirements for Tenderfoot, Second Class or First Class with the exception of the requirement to show scout spirit or complete a Scoutmaster Conference. For a more detailed explanation of this topic, see the Advancement Requirements, Policies and Procedures document under the Advancement tab of this Troop Handbook.</p>
<p><strong>How does the Troop keep track of each boy’s advancement?</strong><br />
The Scoutmaster is responsible for all troop advancement and works with the Advancement Chairperson to insure that permanent records are maintained. However, a scout is responsible for the retention of his Scout Handbook, which is also a record of his advancement and all blue cards for merit badges. The retention of completed blue cards is very important as they must all be submitted with a scout’s Eagle Scout application.</p>
<p><strong>What is the Scoutmaster Conference? Board of Review?</strong><br />
After completing all of the requirements of a rank, a scout must complete a conference with the Scoutmaster. This is a short conference with the Scoutmaster to discuss a scout’s progress and scout spirit. After completing a Scoutmaster Conference, a scout must attend a Board of Review to complete his rank. The Board of Review is composed of 3 or more registered adults of troop who meet with the scout to discuss with him his progress and experiences in Scouting. For the details of setting up a Scoutmaster Conference or Board of Review, see the Advancement Requirements, Policies and Procedures document under the Advancement tab of this Troop Handbook.</p>
<p><strong>How and when are Scoutmaster Conferences and Boards of Review scheduled?</strong><br />
At the request of a Scout, the Scoutmaster will set up a time for a Scoutmaster Conference. Scoutmaster Conferences are generally not held during troop meetings or other functions, but can be scheduled for overnight outings. Boards of Review will be held periodically, usually during a troop meeting, to accommodate the needs of scouts.  To schedule a Board of Review contact <a href="javascript:DeCryptX('2d3v0a16381c1p1b1s3g3r3i1s3h2x2k2g2y2B2i0m3d1j3o1/1d1p1n')">bsa55boardofreview [at] gmail [dot] com</a>.</p>
<p><strong>What are merit badges and when should boys work on them?</strong><br />
Merit Badges are earned by mastering basic skills in over one hundred areas of interest and can be earned by scouts at anytime. However, merit badges are not required for advancement until a scout reaches First Class. It is recommended that scouts concentrate on attaining First Class before working on more than the introductory merit badges such as Swimming, Basketry, Wood Carving, and Leatherwork. For a complete list of merit badges and those required for advancement beyond First Class, _________________.</p>
<p><strong>How do I find out what merit badges are available?</strong><br />
The Scout Handbook lists all the available merit badges and pamphlets for many of them are maintained in our troop library. Speak to the Troop Librarian for access to the library.  You can also check ___________________.</p>
<p><strong>What is the process for merit badges?</strong><br />
Please consult the Advancement Requirements, Policies and Procedures document ______________found in this Handbook under the Advancement tab.</p>
<p><strong>What is a blue card and how do I get one?</strong><br />
A blue card is the document used to record the completion of the requirements of a merit badge. When you’ve decided to pursue completion of a merit badge, ask the Scoutmaster for a blue card and then fill it out with your name and the name of the merit badge you intend to pursue and return it the Scoutmaster for his signature. You must have a blue card signed by the Scoutmaster before you begin work on a merit badge. Upon completion of the requirements for a merit badge, the counselor will sign the card and return it to you. The Scoutmaster’s signature is also required so give the blue card to the Scoutmaster and he will forward it to the Advancement Chairperson.</p>
<p><strong>How do I find a merit badge counselor?</strong><br />
A listing of merit badge counselors is maintained in the troop library. How do I sign up to be a merit badge counselor? Contact the troop Advancement Chairman for the appropriate forms.</p>
<p><strong>What are the religious awards? How do they work?</strong><br />
The twelfth scout law is a Scout is Reverent and the Boy Scouts of America has a religious awards program to allow any scout to earn a religious award in a religion of his choice. To earn the award, a scout works with his own church to complete the award. For more information consult our Religious Awards Coordinator (adult) or our Chaplain Aide (youth).</p>
<p><strong>What is a Court of Honor?</strong><br />
In the process of advancement, a scout first learns, then is tested, then is reviewed (Board of Review) and then is recognized (the Court of Honor). A Court of Honor is a formal ceremony to recognize the achievements of our scouts and is held four times a year. All parents are urged to attend regardless whether they have a son being<br />
recognized.</p>
<p><strong>What is the PLC? Where and how often does it meet?</strong><br />
PLC stands for Patrol Leaders Council and is comprised of the youth leaders in the troop who are responsible for planning and implementing the troop program. The membership includes the Senior Patrol Leader, the Assistant Senior Patrol Leaders, all Patrol Leaders and the Scribe. The PLC meets once a year for the Annual Planning Session and once every month at St. Francis Church to plan the weekly meetings.</p>
<p><strong>What does Patrol Leader do? Assistant Patrol Leader?</strong><br />
The Patrol Leader is responsible for working with the scouts of his patrol to plan and implement the activities of the patrol. He reports directly to the Senior Patrol Leader and works with the other Patrol Leaders to present the program of Scouting. An Assistant Patrol Leader is available to serve in the Patrol Leaders absence.</p>
<p><strong>What is the process of sign-ups for outings?</strong><br />
Each month a permission slip will be forwarded to each scout with the details of the monthly outing. The permission should be signed by a parent and returned during one of troop meetings prior to the outing. A box for return of the forms and checks is available at each troop meeting.</p>
<p><strong>How are meals paid for on overnight outings?</strong><br />
Each patrol is responsible for planning, purchasing and preparing its own food for the overnight outings. The cost is borne by the entire patrol attending the outing according to the meal costs as outlined in the permission slip. Patrols will be reimbursed for costs by the Treasurer. Parents who have not been reimbursed for patrol food expenses should<br />
contact their son’s Patrol Advisor. (See the printed roster for identity of this Assistant Scoutmaster).</p>
<p><strong>Are there guidelines for food and snacks on outings?</strong><br />
Scouts eat as patrols on overnight outings except when specifically stated as otherwise in the permission slip. Generally when on backpacking trips, scouts are responsible for their lunches on the trail, but other meals are provided by the patrols. Consequently, scouts should not bring additional food as it just attracts animals and insects. Please no soft drinks and excessive amounts of candy.</p>
<p><strong>What equipment does my son need?</strong><br />
See the Equipment _____________section of this Troop Handbook. As a new scout, work on the essentials first, a good sleeping bag, a closed cell ground pad, good pair of hiking boots, a backpack and rain gear. Delay purchase of a tent until your son has had the opportunity to attend several campouts. Scouts sleep in two-person tents and before purchasing one, your son will sleep with scouts who have a tent. If you do purchase a tent, please no tents larger than two-person tents.</p>
<p><strong>Is there a lost and found?</strong><br />
We do not have a formal lost and found, but check with the Scoutmaster after an event for the best chance of locating a lost item.</p>
<p><strong>Are adults welcome on outings?</strong><br />
Adults interested in attending overnight outings should contact the Scoutmaster. Inasmuch as Scouting is not a Father/Son or Mother/Son organization, you are welcome to attend if you are interested in assisting the uniformed leadership of the troop. Adults attending are encouraged to have completed Fast Start and Youth Protection training.</p>
<p><strong>What do adults do on the outings?</strong><br />
As explained in the Troop Organization section of this Troop Handbook, Scouting uses a Boy-Led concept. Consequently, on outings adults are principally there for health and safety purposes. Of course, the uniformed adult leadership works with the youth leadership to provide advice and assistance when necessary to insure the delivery of the program. The adults sleep in an area away from the scouts and are responsible for their own meals. Adults do not sleep with their sons unless there are very compelling circumstances to do so and with the approval of the Scoutmaster.</p>
<p><strong>What is summer camp?</strong><br />
Each summer all scouts attend a week at a Boy Scout camp. Scouts sleep in two person tents on wooden platforms and participate in a week of activities for fun and advancement. Activities include swimming, boating, rifle, shotgun, archery, hiking, orienteering and many others. Scouts can work on advancement for Tenderfoot to First Class, as well as earn several merit badges. Attendance at summer camp, although not mandatory, is strongly encouraged, as scouts who do not attend will fall behind, possibly irreparably, in their advancement.</p>
<p><strong>What if my son has a conflict with the date for summer camp?</strong><br />
You are strongly urged to amend your plans to allow your son to attend summer camp with his troop. However, if that is impossible, we strongly recommend sending him to summer camp during another week to as a provisional camper. He will be placed in a provisional troop with other scouts who are also not attending with their troop.</p>
<p><strong>Why are there different types of medical forms and which one am I supposed to use?</strong><br />
The medical forms provided and required by the Boy Scouts of America are classified in three categories, Class 1, Class 2, and Class 3. The Class 1 is simply a medical history provided by a parent and must be updated every year. A Class 2 requires a physical exam by a physician. To attend summer camp, a scout must have a current Class 1 and a Class 2 dated within the last three years. For scouts attending high adventure activities, or any adults who are over 40, a Class 3 is required. A Class 3 is a more thorough physical exam and must be completed within one year of the activity.</p>
<p><strong>How are medications for scouts handled?</strong><br />
If you son is taking a medication, please advise the Scoutmaster before any overnight activity. If it is summer camp, a specific form must be completed granting the camp permission to administer the medication. For other outings, please discuss the issue with the Scoutmaster and he or one of the Assistant Scoutmasters will administer the medication if appropriate.</p>
<p><strong>Are there requirements for attendance at activities?</strong><br />
The troop Scribe records the attendance at all troop meetings and the Scoutmaster records attendance at all other activities. Every rank requires a scout to demonstrate scout spirit and the Scoutmaster utilizes the attendance records to assist in making that determination. Please carefully review the troop Advancement Requirements, Policies and Procedures document found under the Advancement ____________________tab of this Troop Notebook.</p>
<p><strong>What are service hours and how are they earned? Reported?</strong><br />
To earn service hours the project must not benefit scouting, but rather must be for a nonprofit organization such as a church, school or other community organization. Please review the Service Hours guidelines found under the Community Service tab _________________________of this Troop Notebook.</p>
<p><strong>Is there a discipline policy?</strong><br />
Yes, see the Troop by-laws under the Troop Organization tab of this Troop Handbook. Generally speaking, the youth leadership of the troop handles the customary issues of discipline. Although the Scoutmaster expects all scouts to follow the Scout Oath and Laws, profanity, hitting or touching each other and any form of oral or physical hazing is<br />
strictly prohibited.</p>
<p><strong>What is High Adventure?</strong><br />
High Adventure refers to special activities that are available for scouts 13 years and older. Generally, this includes trips to one of three National BSA High Adventure facilities at Philmont Scout Reservation in New Mexico, Northern Tier in the Boundary Lakes of Minnesota or Florida Sea Base in the Florida Keys. It also includes special activities<br />
such as rock climbing, rappelling, use of a COPE (Challenging Outdoor Personal Experience) course, long term backpacking trips, scuba diving and many others.</p>
<p><strong>What is the Order of the Arrow (OA)?</strong><br />
The Order of the Arrow is an honor camper organization within the Boy Scouts of America. Scouts who have completed 15 days and nights of camping are eligible to be elected by their fellow scouts to join the OA. Troop elections of OA are conducted once a year in February or March. If a scout is elected, he must complete an ordeal weekend before he officially becomes a member of the OA. If a scout is elected by his troop, but fails to complete one of the two ordeals offered each year, he must be re-elected to join the OA. See the troop calendar for the dates of the ordeal weekends.</p>
<p><strong>We pay annual dues. Why is there also an annual fundraiser, the mulch sale?</strong><br />
The dues cover the administrative costs of operating the troop such as awards, insignia and Court of Honor expenses. The mulch sale provides additional funds for the troop for large expenses such as equipment while allowing scouts to earn money for their own account. The money earned by a scout during the mulch account can be used by a scout<br />
for the expense of any scout activity.</p>
<p><strong>What if we cannot afford the expense of an activity?</strong><br />
Scouts can earn mulch credits during the annual mulch sale that can be used for any scouting activity or expense. If the mulch credits are inadequate, the troop budgets for several camperships each year to make all events available to all scouts. Please speak privately with the Scoutmaster about your needs and a procedure is in place to insure the<br />
confidentially of this financial support.</p>
<p><strong>What is the Troop Committee? When does it meet?</strong><br />
It is the adult organization responsible for supporting the program of the troop. It meets the first Monday of every month, but check the annual calendar for changes attributable to holidays. See the Troop Organization section of the Troop Handbook for more information.</p>
<p><strong>How can I help?</strong><br />
Ask the Scoutmaster or Committee Chair for a volunteer form. There are many ways you can help.</p>
<p><strong>Why does a blue adult leader application require permission for a background check?</strong><br />
As a means of insuring that all adult volunteers are qualified and suitable for service  scouting, the Boy Scouts of America has instituted a policy to require all adults  undergo a background check before being able to serve as  volunteer.</p>
<p><strong>How do we find out about outings, activities, meetings, etc.?</strong><br />
At the beginning of each school year you will be provided with an annual specifying the date and time of all planned scouting activities. You are strongly urged to transfer these dates to your family calendar and to note the dates of summer camp and high adventure when planning family vacations. Please pay special note to the troop meetings and Patrol Leaders Council meetings as the PLC is not always the lastWednesday of the month. And of course, you will find this information and more on the website.</p>
<p><strong>What can I do to make sure my son gets the most out of this program?</strong><br />
Familiarize yourself with the material in this Troop Handbook and the Official Scout Handbook, specifically the advancement program so you can provide encouragement to your son. Join the troop committee and volunteer to support the program of the troop.</p>
<p><strong>Why is the troop T-Shirt required for outings when I&#8217;ve been told that cotton clothing is</strong><strong> inappropriate for cold weather camping?</strong><br />
The troop T-shirt is required on all outings (except the ski trip and other events as designated on the troop calendar) and is suitable attire in any weather when incorporated in the layering concept. Layering is the concept of wearing multiple layers of clothing to enable oneself to adjust to the temperature by adding or removing layers of clothing.<br />
Because cotton allows the body to breath, thereby allowing body heat to escape, it should not be worn as the only outer garment of clothing in cold weather (such as cotton jeans). However, in cold weather a cotton T-shirt is a suitable first layer of clothing. So in the winter and colder months wear your T-shirt and one or two other layers and, if the<br />
temperature reaches a comfortable level, you can remove the other layers and just wear the T-shirt.</p>
<p>&nbsp;</p>
<p>© 2005 by Great Falls Virginia Troop 55 Handbook Updated Spring 2005</p>
