+++
title = 'Sleeping Bags and Backpacks'
+++

<p><strong>SLEEPING BAGS</strong><br />
In addition to staying dry and having a good pair of study shoes, an important ingredient for a successful camping trip is a good night’s sleep. The selection of the proper sleeping bag can be a confusing experience so we offer some guidelines. There are two classes of sleeping bags on the market, the day-bag intended to be used inside as an alternative to bedding and a sleeping bag designed to be used outside when camping. We are concerned only about the later. BEWARE of day bags; they are NOT suitable for camping use.</p>
<p><span style="text-decoration: underline;">Type of Bag</span><br />
There are several types of sleeping bags on the market. The types are distinguished by their shape. The full rectangular sleeping bag is that it is the same width the full length of the bag. These bags are considered the comfortable by many as they more closely duplicate you bed at home. They are not as warm in the winter as your body has to heat a greater volume inside the bag. Every time you move you have to heat a different area of the sleeping bag, robbing your body of valuable heat. These bags are bulky and heavy compared to the other types of bags.</p>
<p>The second type of bag is the tapered bag. The style is narrower at the foot of the bag. This bag is lighter, less bulky and will be warmer that a full cut sleeping bag. It is a good alternative to the third type, the mummy style bag.</p>
<p>The mummy style sleeping bag takes some getting used to. You wear a mummy bag, that is, when you roll over it moves with you just like your clothing. Since a mummy bag has an interior volume that matches your body, there is no extra space your body has to heat. This bag is very efficient and is used on all high mountain treks by professionals. It packs small and weighs less.</p>
<p><span style="text-decoration: underline;">Type of Insulation</span><br />
There are two basic types of insulation used in sleeping bags, synthetic and down. Down bags have the best insulating value per pound than any other type. However, they are very expensive costing several hundred dollars for a good bag. Down has very poor insulating properties when wet. Because of this possibility, we do not recommend this type of bag.</p>
<p>There a great variety of synthetic insulating materials available. The one that we highly recommend is Dupont Quallofil. It is a synthetic fiber that has 6 hollow, air filled tubes in every strand of fiber. Its insulating properties are very close to down and it has a good rating when wet.</p>
<p><span style="text-decoration: underline;">Construction</span><br />
It is important that the stitching that makes up the quilting of a sleeping bag not go straight through the bag layer. This causes thin spots the insulation which will make cold spots when sleeping.</p>
<p>Look for a bag that has the quilting offset from one side to the other on both the top and bottom. A well made bag will have a tubal insulating barrier on the inside of the bag along the zipper to keep heat from leaking out through the zipper. A bag that has a full length zipper is better because the temperature inside the bag can be more easily regulated in warm weather. They are also easier to keep clean. Some bags have a pocket at the head to put your jacket or other clothing to make a pillow.</p>
<p><span style="text-decoration: underline;">Temperature Rating</span><br />
Most of the better bags will have a temperature rating attached. This is NOT a “comfort” rating although some sales people may tell you so. This is the lowest outside temperature that the average healthy person could survive in the rated bag. This does not mean that you will be comfortable; it means you will not perish at that temperature. However, the use of a fleece liner or synthetic long johns may allow you to use this bag comfortably at the rated temperature.</p>
<p><span style="text-decoration: underline;">Selection of the Appropriate Bag for Seasonal Camping</span><br />
Troop 55 camps in hot weather, sometimes near or above 100 degrees, and cold weather,<br />
sometimes below zero. We camp in rain, snow, sleet and sometimes even when there isn’t a cloud in the<br />
sky. It is not possible to purchase a bag that is good for all these conditions. However, there are things<br />
that can be done to extend the range of your bag.</p>
<p>The best solution is to have two sleeping bags. The first is a light weight summer bag, with a light synthetic insulation. It should be a full cut rectangular bag with a zipper that allows the bag to be opened like a blanket. It should be constructed so that it doesn’t have a top or a bottom allowing the bag to be used with the zipper on either side. Some models have different thickness of materials on each side allowing the bag to be used for different temperature by reversing the side you put under you and on top of you. These bags are very inexpensive and are very useful on very hot evenings.</p>
<p>The second sleeping bag should be a tapered or mummy bag depending on your personal preference. We recommend a 20 degree rated bag allowing the bag to be upgraded on very cold nights through the use of synthetic long johns, a fleece sleeping bag liner or using both bags. It should have zipper baffles and a hood or pouch for clothes. It should also have a draw-string around the top so you can pull it tight around your face.</p>
<p><span style="text-decoration: underline;">Use and Cleaning of Sleeping Bags</span><br />
Most synthetic bags can be laundered with care, but be sure to consult the cleaning instructions on the bag. Beware that they may take a considerable amount of time to dry as synthetic materials do not do well in the dryer with high heat. In fact, most manufacturers recommend air-dying the bag or using the dryer on air only. The frequency of cleaning can be reduced by the use of a sleeping bag liner.</p>
<p>Besides the correct bag, you can improve the quality of your evening by waiting just before you<br />
go to bed to unroll your sleeping bag and NEVER sleeping in clothes you wore during the day. Your<br />
clothes absorb moisture as you sweat during the day (summer or winter) and the moisture will lower the<br />
temperature rating of your bag. So be sure to have some clean and dry sleeping clothes on all outings.</p>
<p><strong>BACKPACKS</strong><br />
Each scout is expected to have a backpack for all outdoor overnight outings. There are many styles, but essentially there are three sizes and two types. Each has its advantages and disadvantages.</p>
<p>As a rule of thumb, packs with a capacity of less than 2,500 cubic inches are considered day packs, weekend packs have a capacity of 2,500 to 4,000 cubic inches and weeklong packs have capacities in excess of 4,000 cubic inches. Packs for weekend or weeklong use are either internal or external frame packs.</p>
<p><span style="text-decoration: underline;">Day Packs</span><br />
These small, light-weight packs are designed to hold a lunch, a water bottle, raingear, first aid kit, map and compass. They do not have a frame, no hip belt and are designed to wear on the back, over your shoulder, or as fanny pack. They are inexpensive and are sometimes referred to as book bags. The quality of these bags varies so look for sturdy stitching and reinforced anchor points for the shoulder straps.</p>
<p><span style="text-decoration: underline;">External Frame Packs</span><br />
Until advent of the internal frame pack about 10 years ago, these were the most common backpack. However, it is still an excellent choice for a starter pack for younger scouts. The pack is attached to a frame made of space age plastics to high tech metals and usually provides several adjustable points to adjust the center of balance to your body size. At the very minimum, it should have a padded hip belt and adjustable padded shoulder straps. Some manufacturers offer two or more sizes to improve the comfort of the fit.</p>
<p>The most commonly cited advantage of this pack is that the frame keeps the pack from touching your back thereby improving the airflow around your back and improving the comfort in warm weather. Also these packs usually provide top loading with multiple pockets on the side for easy access to items during hikes. Sleeping pads and sleeping bags are usually tied to the frame in lieu of storage within the bag.</p>
<p><span style="text-decoration: underline;">Internal Frame Packs</span><br />
Most, if not all, older scouts now use the internal frame packs. The frame is integrated into the pack and is intended to hold the pack as close to your back as possible. Because of this feature, most models come in two or more sizes to fit the size of the user. When first introduced on the market, all were top loading without side compartments, but most models now have addressed that concern with the addition of pockets for water bottles and other items that would be required on the trail.</p>
<p>The internal frame packs allows the user to keep the center of gravity of the pack closer to your natural center of gravity making movement with the pack more balanced and normal. The only concern is the absence of air space between your back and the pack increasing the heat buildup in warm weather.</p>
<p>As with external packs, at the very minimum it should have a padded hip belt and adjustable padded<br />
shoulder straps.</p>
<p>&nbsp;</p>
<p>© 2005 by Great Falls Virginia Troop 55 Handbook Updated Spring 2005</p>
