+++
title = 'Troop 55 Bylaws: Finances'
+++

<ol>
<li><strong>Dues are assessed to each boy scout </strong>on an annual basis for the troop program year.  This is every boy scout’s equity in the troop and is non-refundable.  The Troop Committee, based on the troop’s budgeted expenditures for the program year, sets dues annually.  Dues are payable by September 30 of each year for a scout to remain active in the troop. Failure to pay dues will result in the scout being placed in an inactive status and therefore unable to participate in Troop 55 meetings, outings and events.   The dues cover registration with the Boy Scouts of America, an annual subscription to Boys Life magazine, and budgeted troop expenses such as gear and advancement patches.  Whenever a new scout enters the troop, his dues will be prorated to cover registration and other budgeted expenses for the remainder of the program year.  Fees for special events, campouts, and food are collected prior to the event and are in addition to troop dues.</li>
<li><strong>The Treasurer will prepare an annual budget</strong>, to include all of Troop 55’s projected operating costs and estimated income from all sources, for presentation at the regularly scheduled September Troop Committee meeting.  The budget will be developed with the assistance of the Troop Committee Chairman and Scoutmaster after the PLC has planned the year’s program.  The Troop Committee must approve the budget. Once approved, the budget is the troop’s guideline for monitoring and controlling operational costs through the program year.</li>
<li><strong>Money-earning projects may be conducted</strong> to offer boy scouts the opportunity to earn funds that may be applied to costs of designated scout activities.  If required, a unit money-earning application will be submitted to and approved by the National Capital Area Council before the start of any Troop fund raising activity.  These fund raising activities are supported by the Troop Committee, which determines the distribution of profits.  The Treasurer will record and maintain individual accounts of each scout’s funds.  Any unused monies left in a scout’s individual account when that scout resigns from the troop will be credited to the troop general fund.  Any scout transferring to another troop may have monies from his individual account transferred to the receiving troop upon written request from the transferring scout and the Scoutmaster of the scout’s new troop</li>
<li><strong>All checks or cash </strong>received from dues, special money earning functions, donations, etc., shall be properly receipted and deposited in the troop checking account to ensure an audit trail for income.              </li>
<li><strong>The Troop shall maintain a checking account </strong>for operational expenses.  The Treasurer shall reconcile any and all bank accounts monthly.  The Treasurer should submit a written report to the Troop Committee at each monthly meeting and should submit the report to the Scoutmaster and the Committee Chairman before the meeting.</li>
<li><strong>The National Capital Area Council provides supplemental medical insurance coverage </strong>for the registered members, both youth and adult, of Troop 55.  If this coverage is ever suspended or terminated, the Committee Chairperson will ensure that Troop 55 maintains secondary medical coverage for all of its registered members.</li>
<li><strong>In an effort to ensure that all scouts in the troop are able to participate in scouting activities</strong>, the Scoutmaster may, in consultation with the Troop Treasurer, provide troop financial assistance for scouts when other means of assistance are not available.  Annually as part of the budget review process, the Troop Committee shall establish a budget for this assistance, and the Scoutmaster may from time to time petition the Troop Committee for approval of additional funds.  The Scoutmaster and Treasurer shall maintain strict confidentiality of the provision of this assistance.  The provision of assistance can be initiated by the scout, his parents, the Scoutmaster, or Troop Treasurer.</li>
<li><strong>The troop committee will perform an independent audit </strong>of the troop financial records every two years.</li>
</ol>
<p>(Revised March 10, 2009)</p>
