+++
title = 'Religious Award- Purple Knot November 4 at 6:30'
date = '2015-11-03T23:54:16-0500'
url = '/2015/11/religious-award-purple-knot-november-4-at-630/'
categories = ['Events', 'Scouting Opportunities']
+++
<p>&nbsp;“A Scout is Reverent” All Scouts show this by being faithful in their duty to God. Some go further to study and qualify for a religious emblem.&nbsp;</p>
<p>Wednesday, November 4, 2015, 6:30 before troop meeting Library, St. Francis Church&nbsp;</p>
<p>Scouting is a time of intense growth and change in young men. <span id="more-3805"></span>Growth occurs, but a little effort makes it flourish. Whether it be physical growth (a few barbells help), mental growth (school lessons help), social growth (a few lessons on conversation help), moral growth (burning into consciousness the virtues of the Scout Law-trustworthy, loyal, helpful, friendly, courteous, kind, obedient, cheerful, thrifty, brave, clean, and reverent), or spiritual growth (reading the Bible helps). Personally I feel spiritual growth is the most important for several reasons: 1) it goes on forever; 2) nothing is more wonderful than the fruit of the Spirit (as the apostle Paul defines it in Galatians 5:22- love, joy, peace, patience, kindness, goodness, faithfulness, gentleness, and self-control); and 3) it promises a meaningful, abundant, blessed life. Purposeful goal oriented work exponentially increases our opportunities and prepares us for spiritual growth. In our school years we spend an incredible amount of time on mental growth. That is okay, but I am overjoyed that many young men in Troop 55 have gone beyond their school work, scouting and sports work, and worked to achieve their religious emblem. I am looking forward to working with a few young men this winter to qualify them for a religious emblem worn on the uniform as a purple knot. Wednesday night, an hour before the regular group meeting of November 4, 2015, at St. Francis Church in the library downstairs, I hope to meet with all young men that are interested in getting their religious emblem this year. We will meet an additional 5 hourly meetings over the next 3-5 months, (hopefully on a regular schedule like every 2nd and 4th Wednesday night before troop meetings) complete a well thought out and inspirational workbook, and participate in a daily Bible reading program for 90 days. If you see a scout with his purple knot, just ask him if it is worthwhile.&nbsp;</p>
