+++
title = 'Vikings, Bears and Dragons Post on the Dec 17 Cooking Competition'
date = '2012-01-03T20:40:02-0500'
url = '/2012/01/vikings-and-dragons-post-on-the-dec-17-cooking-competition/'
categories = ['Historian']
+++
<p><strong>Submitted by Charles S. &#8211; Viking Patrol</strong></p>
<p>The cooking competition was an over all fun experience for the Vikings patrol. Most of the younger scouts in the patrol helped out by gathering the supplies needed to cook, while the older and more experienced scouts made and prepared the food. In the view of the Vikings patrol we were the best and nothing could stand in our way to be first place in the cooking competition. The patrol tried their hardest to make their food for their piers to enjoy. After the food was ready, everyone sat down together and ate. Everyone had a good time talking to friends and eating together.</p>
<p><strong>Submitted by Liam G. &#8211; Bear Patrol</strong></p>
<p>The Bears patrol arrived on schedule and proceeded to create their Irish themed dinner.  While a few members left to help with the monkey bridge, the rest of the Bears baked brownies for the trifle, diced ingredients for the potato skins, and watched the Dutch ovens to make sure the corned beef was cooking properly.  Although the corned beef was fully cooked, the judges unfortunately believed that it was undercooked because it was red.  However, corned beef when completely cooked is red.  I believe the Bears patrol has a small chance of winning.</p>
<p><strong>Submitted by Kyle D. &#8211; Dragon Patrol</strong></p>
<p>For the first time in a while Troop 55 decided to have an overnight camp-out before the cooking competition. This was referred to as the &#8220;mystery camp-out&#8221; that ended up being right in front of the church. When I arrived in the morning the Dragons Patrol had just finished cleaning up after breakfast. We had about 2 hours till the competition started. Dr. Nesbitt approached myself and some other scouts to hop in the &#8220;Cool Bus&#8221; and get some spars from Mr. Lynch&#8217;s House to use in the creation of a monkey bridge. Soon after we got back with the huge spars the competition began.</p>
<p>The Dragons had an Asian theme consisting of Fried Rice and a Chicken Stir-Fry, Chicken Wantons, and Chocolate Rice Pudding. Over the course of four hours the Dragons worked exceptionally well together in order to prepare the best meal possible. Our two newest scouts Daniel and Ethan filled over one hundred wantons while Justin, Matt and I focused on the Fried Rice and Stir-Fry. After time was called we rushed the dishes into the dining hall and presented our plate to the judges. While the judging took place, our patrol and family members enjoyed our fantastic meal. Next, it was time for clean up. We boiled our water for the famous Three Pot Method and working together we were able to clean our dirty pots, pans, and woks in record time. Everyone had a great time and we eagerly await the competition results that will be presented at the Jan 4th Court of Honor.</p>
<p><a title="Cooking Competition Pictures on Picasa" href="https://picasaweb.google.com/111507527417012068976/20111217CookingCompOuting?locked=true&amp;feat=email#">See Gary&#8217;s Pictures</a></p>
