+++
title = 'BSA Youth Protection Training'
url = '/bsa-youth-protection-training/'
+++

<p>BSA <a href="http://www.scouting.org/Training/YouthProtection.aspx">Youth Protection Training</a> is required for all BSA registered volunteered.  Thus, all Troop 55 adult leaders have to take <a href="http://www.scouting.org/Training/YouthProtection.aspx">Youth Protection Training</a> and maintain that training.</p>
<blockquote><p><em>The Boy Scouts of America places the greatest importance on creating the most secure environment possible for our youth members. To maintain such an environment, the BSA developed numerous procedural and leadership selection policies and provides parents and leaders with resources for the Cub Scout, <a href="http://www.scouting.org/Training/YouthProtection/BoyScout.aspx">Boy Scout</a>, and Venturing programs.</em></p></blockquote>
<h2 style="font-size: 12px;">Youth Protection not only pertains to dealing with youth in person, at meetings and at outings but also dealing with scouts online, via electronic communication and social media.  <a href="http://www.scouting.org/sitecore/content/Home/Marketing/Resources/SocialMedia.aspx">BSA has some guidelines</a> for this on their website:</h2>
<p><em>Abiding by the “two deep” leadership policy that governs all Scouting activities also applies to use of social media. Two-deep leadership means two registered adult leaders, or one registered leader and a parent of a participating Scout or other adult, one of whom must be 21 years of age or older, are required for all trips and outings.</em></p>
<p><em>As it relates to social media, two-deep leadership means there should be no private messages and no one-on-one direct contact through email, Facebook messages, Twitter direct messaging, chats, instant messaging (Google Messenger, AIM, etc.), or other similar messaging features provided through social media sites. All communication between adults and youth should take place in a public forum (e.g. the Facebook wall), or at a bare minimum, electronic communication between adults and youth should always include one or more authorized adults openly “copied” (included) on the message or message thread.</em></p>
<p><em>While all communication should be public and leaders should follow the two-deep rule while communicating via social media channels, it is recommended that as you and members of your group create personal social media profiles, the personal information on these profiles should be kept private (e.g., do not display your phone number, address, or personal email address on these profiles). It is recommended that any Scouts with personal profiles for social media make those profiles private so the Scout’s personal information is not accessible by the public. In creating personal profiles, everyone should familiarize themselves with and abide by the terms of service of the sites where they create and maintain personal profiles.</em></p>
<h2 style="font-size: 12px;"><span style="text-decoration: underline;">From  BSA&#8217;s Youth Protection information page:</span></h2>
<h2 style="font-size: 12px;">Scouting&#8217;s Barriers to Abuse</h2>
<p>The BSA has adopted the following policies to provide additional security for our members. These policies are primarily for the protection of our youth members; however, they also serve to protect our adult leaders from false accusations of abuse.</p>
<ul>
<li><strong>Two-deep leadership is required on all outings. </strong>Two registered adult leaders or one registered leader and a parent of a participant, or other adult, one of whom must be 21 years of age or older, are required on all trips and outings. The chartered organization is responsible for ensuring that sufficient leadership is provided for all Scouting activities.  There are a few instances, such as patrol activities, when the presence of adult leaders is not required and adult leadership may be limited to training and guidance of the patrol leadership. With the proper training, guidance, and approval by the troop leaders, the patrol can conduct day hikes and service projects. Appropriate adult leadership must be present for all overnight Scouting activities; coed overnight activities—even those including parent and child—require male and female adult leaders, both of whom must be 21 years of age or older, and one of whom must be a registered member of the BSA. The chartered organization is responsible for ensuring that sufficient leadership is provided for all activities.</li>
<li><strong>One-on-one contact between adults and Scouts is prohibited. </strong>In situations that require personal conferences, such as a Scoutmaster&#8217;s conference, the meeting is to be conducted in view of other adults and youths.</li>
<li><strong>Separate accommodations for adults and Scouts are required. </strong>When camping, no youth is permitted to sleep in the tent of an adult other than his or her own parent or guardian. Councils are strongly encouraged to have separate shower and latrine facilities for females. When separate facilities are not available, separate times for male and female use should be scheduled and posted for showers. Likewise, youth and adults must shower at different times.</li>
<li><strong>Privacy of youth is respected. </strong>Adult leaders must respect the privacy of youth members in situations such as changing clothes and taking showers at camp, intruding only to the extent that health and safety require. Adults must protect their own privacy in similar situations.</li>
<li><strong>Inappropriate use of cameras, imaging, and digital devices is prohibited. </strong>While most campers and leaders use cameras and other imaging devices responsibly, it has become very easy to invade the privacy of individuals. It is inappropriate to use any device capable of recording or transmitting visual images in shower houses, restrooms, or other areas where privacy is expected by participants.</li>
<li><strong>No secret organizations. </strong>The Boy Scouts of America does not allow any secret organizations as part of its program. All aspects of the Scouting program are open to observation by parents and leaders.</li>
<li><strong>No hazing. </strong>Physical hazing and initiations are prohibited and may not be included as part of any Scouting activity.</li>
<li><strong>No bullying. </strong>Verbal, physical, and cyber bullying are prohibited in Scouting.</li>
<li><strong>Youth leadership is monitored by adult leaders. </strong>Adult leaders must monitor and guide the leadership techniques used by youth leaders and ensure that BSA policies are followed.</li>
<li><strong>Discipline must be constructive. </strong>Discipline used in Scouting should be constructive and reflect Scouting’s values. Corporal punishment is never permitted.</li>
<li><strong>Appropriate attire for all activities. </strong>Proper clothing for activities is required. For example, skinny-dipping or revealing bathing suits are not appropriate as part of Scouting.</li>
<li><strong>Members are responsible to act according to the Scout Oath and Scout Law. </strong>All members of the Boy Scouts of America are expected to conduct themselves in accordance with the principles set forth in the Scout Oath and Scout Law. Physical violence, theft, verbal insults, drugs, and alcohol have no place in the Scouting program and may result in the revocation of a Scout’s membership.</li>
<li><strong>Units are responsible to enforce Youth Protection policies. </strong>The head of the chartered organization or chartered organization representative and the local council must approve the registration of the unit’s adult leader. Adult leaders of Scouting units are responsible for monitoring the behavior of youth members and interceding when necessary. Parents of members who misbehave should be informed and asked for assistance. <em>Any violations of the BSA’s Youth Protection policies must immediately be reported to the Scout executive. </em></li>
</ul>
<p>If you have any questions about Youth Protection Training, especially as it may pertain to Troop 55 adult leaders, please contact the Scoutmaster at any time.</p>
