+++
title = 'Merit Badges'
url = '/merit-badges/'
+++

<p>There are currently 121 merit badges that can be earned.  Two separate listings of all 121 merit badges (by group and by simple alphabetic order) with links to the detailed requirements for earning each badge is provided in the gadget on the right.  The list is up-to-date as of 06/08/2006.  Click on any merit badge to obtain a listing of requirements and additional resources that might aid you in achieving those requirements.</p>
<p><span style="text-decoration: underline;"><strong>Merit Badge Introduction</strong></span>. Any scout may earn any merit badge at any rank.  Simply pick an area of interest from the listings on the right, investigate the requirements for that merit badge, then select one or more to pursue.</p>
<p><span style="text-decoration: underline;"><strong>Pick a Counselor and a Scout Buddy</strong></span>.  Pick a merit badge counselor from the PDF document that can be found in the Troop Library at the Church. Check with the Librarian if you have trouble finding a counselor.  You must have another person with you at each meeting with the merit badge counselor. This person can be another Scout, your parents or guardian, a brother or sister, a relative, or a friend.</p>
<p><strong><span style="text-decoration: underline;">Call the Counselor and Get a Blue Card</span></strong>.  Get a signed merit badge application (&#8220;blue card&#8221;) from your Scoutmaster.  This is also available in the Forms gadget on the right. Get in touch with the merit badge counselor and tell him or her that you want to earn the merit badge. The counselor may ask you to come and see him/her so he/she can explain what he/she expects and start helping you meet the requirements.  Once you know what is expected, you should read the merit badge pamphlet on the subject.</p>
<p><strong><span style="text-decoration: underline;">Requirements</span></strong>.  When you are ready, call the counselor again to make an appointment to meet the requirements.  When you go take along the things you have made to meet the requirements.  If they are too big to move, take pictures or have an adult tell in writing what you have done.  The counselor will ask you to do each requirement to make sure that you know your stuff and have done or can do the things required.  You are expected to meet the requirements as they are stated &#8212; no more and no less.  You are expected to do exactly what is stated in the requirements.  If it says &#8220;show or demonstrate,&#8221; that is what you must do.  Just telling about it isn&#8217;t enough.  The same thing holds true for such words as &#8220;make,&#8221; &#8220;list,&#8221; &#8220;in the field,&#8221; and &#8220;collect,&#8221; &#8220;identify,&#8221; and &#8220;label.&#8221;</p>
<p><span style="text-decoration: underline;"><strong>Get the Badge</strong></span>. When the counselor is satisfied that you have met each requirement, he or she will sign your application (&#8220;blue card&#8221;). Give the signed application to your Scoutmaster so that your merit badge emblem can be secured for you.</p>
