+++
title = 'Troop 55 COVID19 Risk and Liability Acknowledgement'
url = '/troop-55-covid19-risk-and-liability-acknowledgement/'
+++

<p>I hereby acknowledge, on behalf of myself and my participating children, that novel coronavirus ("COVID-19") infections have been confirmed throughout the United States, including cases in Virginia. In accordance with the most recent guidance and protocols issued by the World Health Organization ("WHO"), the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention ("CDC") and the Virginia Department of Health ("VDH") (collectively the "Public Health Agencies") for slowing the transmission of COVID-19, I hereby agree, represent, and warrant that neither I, nor such participating children, shall visit or utilize the facilities, events, activities and programs of the BSA Troop 55B, 55G and Crew 364, all of which chartered by St. Francis Church (the "Troop 55") (other than any exclusively online services and programs) within fourteen (14) days after (i) returning from highly impacted areas subject to a CDC Level 3 Travel Health Notice, (ii) exposure to any person returning from areas subject to a CDC Level 3 Travel Health Notice, or (iii) exposure to any person who has a suspected or confirmed case of COVID-19. The CDC Travel Health Network is continuously updating this list and I agree that I am aware of this list and the countries listed. I agree to check the CDC Travel Health Notices list prior to attending or utilizing the facilities, events, activities, and programs of the Troop 55, on a daily basis if necessary. I hereby agree, represent, and warrant that neither I, nor such participating children, shall attend or utilize the facilities, events, activities and programs of the Troop 55 if I, he or she (i) experiences symptoms of COVID-19, including, without limitation, fever, cough or shortness of breath, or (ii) has a suspected or diagnosed/confirmed case of COVID-19. I agree to notify the Troop 55 immediately if I believe that any of the foregoing access/use restrictions may apply.</p>
<p>The Troop 55 has taken certain steps to implement recommended guidance and protocols issued by the Public Health Agencies for slowing the transmission of COVID-19, including, without limitation, the access/use restrictions set forth above. I acknowledge and agree that the Troop 55 may revise its procedures at any time based on updated recommended guidance and protocols issued by the Public Health Agencies and further agree to comply with the Troop 55's revised procedures prior to utilizing the facilities, activities or programs of the Troop 55.</p>
<p>I hereby agree that the Troop 55 <strong>cannot guarantee that</strong> I, such participating children or any other person, will not become infected with COVID-19. I further acknowledge and agree that, due to the nature of the facilities, events, activities, and programs offered by the Troop 55, social distancing of six (6) feet may not be possible at all times. I fully understand and appreciate that attending Troop 55's facilities, events activities and programming could increase my risk and my child or children's risk of contracting COVID-19.</p>
<p>By signing this agreement, I acknowledge the contagious nature of COVID-19 and voluntarily assume the risk that my child or children and I may be exposed to or infected by COVID-19 by attending Troop 55 activities, events, programming and facilities and that such exposure or infection may result in being placed in quarantine, personal injury, illness, permanent disability, and death. I understand that the risk of becoming exposed to or infected by COVID-19 may result from the actions, omissions, or negligence of myself and others, including but not limited to Troop 55 volunteers, and program participants and their families.</p>
<p>I voluntarily agree to assume all of the foregoing risks and accept sole responsibility for any injury to my child or children or myself, including, but not limited to, personal injury, disability, death, illness, damage, loss, claim, liability, or expense of any kind, that I or my child or children may experience or incur in connection with my child or children's attendance at Troop 55 facilities, events activities or programming. On my behalf and on behalf of my child or children, I hereby release, covenant not to sue, discharge, and hold harmless and indemnify the Troop 55, its Chartered organization, Volunteers, Members, Directors, agents, and representatives, of and from any and all claims, including all liabilities, claims, actions, damages, costs or expenses of any kind arising out of or relating thereto. I understand and agree that this release includes any claims based on the actions, omissions, or negligence of the Troop 55, its volunteers, agents and representatives, whether a COVID-19 infection occurs before, during, or after participation in any Troop 55 facilities, events, activities or programming.</p>
